---
layout: post
title: Snowpiercer Film Review
---
<img src ="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/91MDoVBpcML._SL1500_.jpg" width =350/>

  Do you like post-apocalyptic, sci-fi, and action-packed thrillers that leave you in utter awe? Well, Snowpiercer (2013), directed by Bong Joon-ho, has
that covered. The year is 2031. Seventeen years have passed since mankind’s attempt to control global warming resulted in Earth plummeting into a second
Ice Age. To remedy the situation, a twisted Willy Wonka-like philanthropist, Wilford, houses the last remnants of humanity in his massive, energy
sustainable train. However, resources are scarce, and a class hierarchy is put forth to achieve some semblance of order. Front riders live life like it
never changed, while those at the tail section live in horrendous conditions. Infamous actor Chris Evans plays Curtis Everett, a 34-year-old inhabitant
in the tail section who has had enough. Curtis and his colleagues decide to stage a coup to take over the engine. This task will not be a walk in the
park, however, as previous revolts have failed. Curtis’s team will uncover secrets, witness unexpected sights, and persevere through bloody setbacks.
Although this film is geared toward a Western audience when Bong Joon-ho’s first language is Korean, nothing is lost through translation. Snowpiercer
displays a well-developed plot, magnificent sound design, and exquisite visuals. Undoubtedly, the film will satisfy post-apocalyptic fanatics despite its
obscure ending.
  First and foremost, the plot of Snowpiercer is quite linear. Our heroes start at the rear and must end at the front by the finale. For the most part,
there are no flashbacks, no time skips, or time travel. Nonetheless, what makes the plot so interesting and riveting is the fact that our heroes explore
the unknown. The plot starts off quite slow: Curtis waits for the right time to strike along with his peers. Anxiety and tensions grow, however, as the
armed authorities come in every so often to deliver disgusting protein blocks and abduct the children for unknown reasons. Eventually, Curtis receives a
hidden message in one of the protein blocks saying he must save a man named Minsu. Tension begins to build as our heroes are caught in an unexpected
checkup and Curtis has to decide whether or not the revolution proceeds. Although all of this occurs at the beginning of the film, the amount of mystery
and tension produced grabs the audience’s attention and encourages them to take part in the revolution that is unfolding. The viewer is left pondering
about the protein blocks, the children, and the mysterious informant.
What elevates Snowpiercer even further is the noteworthy sound design. The sound design in Snowpiercer adds to the engagement for most of the movie. As
our heroes travel through, the sound of gears grinding and steam boiling rumbles throughout the train. When the train tilts on a sharp turn, the wheels
can be heard screeching on the rails below. These disorienting and jarring sounds serve to treat the viewer as another passenger. The train is not a
luxury ride to the next city, it is a mile-long hunk of steel traveling at 100 kilometers per hour crashing through clumps of ice and snow with no
intention of stopping. In addition to making the train sequences sound realistic, the sound design also amplifies suspenseful and action-packed scenes.
For instance, Curtis and his team cross paths with a group of masked men wielding axes. Suddenly, all the shouts, swinging, and screeching sound distant
to the viewer. The camera focuses on Curtis as he swings his axe towards the assailants. The clashing and fighting become more distant as the fight drags
on, to the point where the only things heard are Curtis’s attacks and his breaths. The sound design in this scene shoves the viewer into the fray and
adds to the intense moment. Furthermore, the way sound and music are implemented into Snowpiercer is so well executed that many scenes would lose their
influence and imprint on the viewer. Right before the heroes engage in the aforementioned fight scene, the music goes silent for a brief moment only to
be back with an abrupt bass as the door slowly reveals the enemies ahead. Alongside perfect scores from Marco Beltrami and the right amount of buildup,
the tone can shift to eerie, somber, or tranquil at a moment’s notice. Snowpiercer stresses the importance sound has on a viewer’s experience as a film
with no sound or music tells only half the story.
  In addition to excellent sound design, the scenes crafted and structured by Bong Joon-ho are exceptional. With our heroes passing through, each train
section has no similarity to the one before. For instance, our heroes could be in a greenhouse garden with fruits and vegetables sprouting all around
them, and in the next scene, they walk through an aquarium-hallway containing the ocean’s ecosystem. The faces of the characters on-screen show shock,
astonishment, and curiosity, much like the viewers. Even in the beginning section of Snowpiercer, the tail is perfectly depicted as the slums of this new
world with dirt-covered characters, and the lighting saturated with bleak colors. Words can describe the unique setting in each train car, but most of
the beauty lies in the unexpected. Moving on about artistic settings, Snowpiercer delivers both exciting and disorienting fight scenes that keep the
viewer on the edge of their seat. For example, the first fight scene begins with Curtis finding the right time to start the revolt. All of a sudden,
Curtis storms into one of the guards, grabbing the gun’s barrel, and placing it on his head. At the same time, the camera panders to all of Curtis’s
movements. The jumpy camera movement adds to the suspense as the following words are shouted, “They got no bullets!” As the tail section riots, the
camera is constantly shaking to invoke anxiety from the viewer. Some viewers say that shaking the camera during fight scenes is disorienting and
excessive. While shaky cam is disorienting, the fact that the cam shakes during the breakout scene mimics someone filming an actual riot taking place. If
anything, this film technique allows the viewer to be immersed into the scene. To sum it up, Bong Joon-ho crafts excellent visuals utilizing inventive
set designs and eccentric fight sequences that will please the viewer’s eyes.
  Throughout the film, it's evident that the world borrows many post-apocalyptic elements. The world is completely frozen over with a sliver of humanity
surviving on a train. Even common sayings like, “In the whole wide world,” has been changed to, “In the whole wide train.” The train represents the new
world where one’s status is dictated on where they are located in the train. Those in the back are treated like insects, while those in front are treated
like royalty. Leigh Finke, an avid watcher of the apocalypse genre, provides reasons as to why people are so engrossed in the apocalyptic genre. Finke
mentions one of the reasons, “if it were us, how would we behave?” This is what makes Snowpiercer so endearing as a post-apocalyptic film, it’s a story
about a group of people wanting a better life. After years of having their children taken away, given disgusting protein blocks to subsist on, and
receiving brutal punishments, the tail riders believe enough is enough. Viewers watching these horrid scenes can’t help but empathize with the
characters. Apocalypse movies strive to take the viewer out of their comfort zone, which Snowpiercer does excellently. Another important aspect Finke
mentions is, “The rebirth that comes afterwards.” Instead of having Curtis succeed in the coup, “the film subverts the audience's expectations and offers
an alternative resolution”(Sean Carleton). An Adam and Eve scenario is born after the train derails leaving only two children alive. Despite being told
their whole lives that the outside world is incapable of harboring life, the two spot a polar bear in the distance. While humanity has technically
survived, this is where Snowpiercer could have done a better job at conveying a more hopeful ending. There are two ways to look at this ending: the two
children will repopulate the Earth once more and humanity will prosper, or the two children will end up a polar bear’s dinner. Logically speaking, the
latter has a higher possibility of occurring since the two have relied on the train their entire lives and have no adults to take care of them. The
ending, as it stands, appeals to a darker end for the two rather than a positive one. In spite of the film’s open ending, Snowpiercer is still an amazing
post-apocalypse movie as it shows the worst of humanity if they were under the worst circumstances.
  In the end, Snowpiercer delivers an exciting sci-fi thriller that will keep the viewer on their feet and subvert any expectations. Those who search for
another film resembling Snowpiercer’s caliber will be left searching for some time. With Snowpiercer providing a thought-provoking premise, fantastic
sound design, and outlandish visuals, it will surely take any viewer on a wild ride.
